Checkov as a Terragrunt hook, Sec in your DevSecOps! (#226)
coveo/source.coveo.com: _posts/2021-02-25-checkov-terragrunt-hook.md

---
layout: post

title: "Checkov as a Terragrunt hook, Sec in your DevSecOps!"

tags: [DevSecOps,Security,IaC,Terraform,Terragrunt]

author:
  name: Jean-Philippe Lachance
  bio: Team Lead, R&D Security Defense
  twitter: JeePLachance
  image: jplachance.jpg
---

Trying to find a good introduction for this blog post, I did what I do when I need to write a complex piece of code: a Google search! I searched for DevSecOps. One of the first results was [this article](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/devops/what-is-devsecops) on the RedHat website.

Basically, Coveo adopted the DevOps principle, meaning that all developers are now taking part in the design, development, deployment and operations of our cloud infrastructure. This allows us to iterate fast, but this also means that the security teams must move fast as well.

To build secure environments while adopting DevOps, we must shift security left, putting it as much as possible in the hands of our developers. Shifting security left is a hot topic in the software industry right now. This post will give you a few ideas. Spoiler: tooling is the key!

<!-- more -->

## The challenge of knowledge

> Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) opened a new world of possibilities. IaaS providers like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud are now all well known and don't need any presentation. Back in 2012, Coveo opened its first AWS account. In 2021, Coveo is now managing over a dozen AWS accounts.

Reviewer: like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud (missing and)

> The multiplication of AWS accounts brought the necessity for Infrastructure as Code (IaC). There are multiple IaC tools out there, and Coveo decided to adopt Terraform. Terraform can manage almost every AWS resource. This means a developer can create IAM roles, EC2 instances, S3 buckets and hundreds of other resources using Terraform.

Reviewer: . . . S3 buckets, and hundreds . . . (missing comma)

## A traditional approach

When does security kick in? When does it become apparent that mistakes were made in that Terraform code? AWS has multiple services that can help identify misconfigurations, such as:
- [AWS Trusted Advisor](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/aws-overview-security-processes/aws-trusted-advisor-security-checks.html)
- [AWS Config conformance packs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/conformance-packs.html)
- [AWS IAM Access Analyzer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/what-is-access-analyzer.html)
- [AWS Security Hub](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/latest/userguide/securityhub-standards.html)

If you're starting with a fresh organization, AWS Security Hub is a good place to go as it pulls findings from multiple AWS services into one interface and helps security specialists prioritize.

What happens when a security specialist configures AWS Security Hub after delegating infrastructure management to multiple DevOps teams? Well, if everyone took the time to read all the documentation available each time they needed to create a new piece of infrastructure, everything should be green!

> We all know we don’t always take the time to fully read the documentation. DevOps teams members are likely to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We all know we don’t always take the time to fully read the documentation. DevOps team members are likely to:
```

- Copy a piece of Terraform code from StackOverflow
- Copy another piece of Terraform code from a colleague that copied it from StackOverflow

> - Use an IDE to tell the required parameters without reading any documentation

Reviewer: Use an IDE to tell what the required parameters are without reading any documentation

- Use a pre-built Terraform module from someone else without looking at the code too much

> - Etc...

Reviewer: I don't think Etc. need an ellipsis. I would go for "Etc." instead

> With time, an organization might end up with dozens or hundreds of AWS resources that don't follow best practices or that don't follow corporate policies. How can that be fixed?

Reviewer 3: dozens or hundreds? I sound weird to me. Like why would you say this org has up to 12+ or even 100+ resources

AWS Config offers us the possibility to create [remediation actions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/remediation.html). While the idea is great, having a tool that changes AWS resource configurations can bring multiple problems:
- It can break the application (some resources cannot be changed, they need to be deleted and then re-created)
- It creates a configuration drift since the Terraform code does not contain the fix

The Terraform code itself must be fixed. Fixing the Terraform code will fix resources. In which repository is the code managing that resource again?

## The DevSecOps approach

> Since organizations now ship changes to production environments multiple times per day, requesting a manual code review from a security expert for all changes would not scale. I could spend all my days reviewing Terraform code and Kubernetes manifest files changes, and I don't think I could cover them all.

Reviewer: manifest file changes (I think? Unless the term is specifically "Manifest Files")

Author: Well, we usually have more than one Kubernetes manifest file. This is why is used `manifest files changes`.

DevSecOps tells security specialists they need to automate security tests and run them as soon as possible in the development cycle. Organizations are already familiar with static code analysis tools for their application source code, so why not do the same with Terraform code?

This is where a tool like [Checkov](https://www.checkov.io/) kicks in. Installing Checkov is easy:
```shell
pip install checkov
```

Using it is even easier:
```shell
checkov -d /path/to/terraform/files
```

Checkov is one tool, but there are multiple tools out there:
- [Terrascan](https://www.accurics.com/products/terrascan/) is another open-source tool, which leverages Open Policy Agent policies
- [Snyk Infrastructure as Code](https://snyk.io/product/infrastructure-as-code-security/) is free for open-source projects and for a limited number of private projects
- [Bridgecrew](https://bridgecrew.io/) are creators of Checkov, and they offer a SaaS that performs analyses on IaC and much more

> - Etc...

Reviewer: Same as before (Etc.)

In this blog post, Checkov was chosen because it is free, simple, well documented, and easy to extend.

## What Checkov can do for us

Creating an S3 bucket using Terraform is quite easy:
```hcl
resource "aws_s3_bucket" "data" {}
```

> This is all developers need! They don't even have to specify a name for the S3 Bucket, Terraform will generate one automatically...

Reviewer: change comma to period (since it's a new sentence)
Also, remove the ellipsis :P (change to period)

Author: It is not a new sentence to my eyes.

Here ellipsis is me making a judgment on what Terraform is doing. Terraform should not generate a random name for S3 buckets, but it does.

Reviewer: It's a new sentence syntactically. Either put a period, or use a semi-colon. Otherwise, it causes a comma splice.
Ellipsis is fine if you want to keep it

```hcl
terraform {
  before_hook "checkov" {
    commands = ["plan"]
    execute = [
      "checkov",
      "-d",
      ".",
      "--quiet",
      "--framework",
      "terraform",
    ]
  }
}
```

With these few lines of HCL code, Terragrunt will run the `checkov` command every time a developer runs a `terragrunt plan` on a project. If Checkov identifies insecure code, it exits with the `1` exit code, which fails the `before_hook`, which in turn stops the `terragrunt plan`.

There are a few benefits to this approach:
- Developers most likely already use the `terragrunt plan` command before submitting a pull request
- Since the CI/CD pipeline probably already does a `terragrunt plan`, there's no need to change a single line of code in the CI/CD pipeline configuration

Integrating security tools inside other DevOps tools is a great way to drive adoption.

## Next steps

> Running static analysis on Terraform files and on Kubernetes manifest won't solve all problems, but it will help the security team adapt to the speed of DevOps and shift a bit of security responsibilities left, i.e., in the hands of developers. Developing knowledge about AWS, Kubernetes, all the other things your organization might be using is also essential.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running static analysis on Terraform files and on Kubernetes manifest won't solve all problems, but it will help the security team adapt to the speed of DevOps and shift a bit of security responsibilities left, i.e., in the hands of developers. Developing knowledge about AWS, Kubernetes, and all the other things your organization might be using is also essential.
```

---
layout: post

title: "Checkov as a Terragrunt hook, Sec in your DevSecOps!"

tags: [DevSecOps,Security,IaC,Terraform,Terragrunt]

author:
  name: Jean-Philippe Lachance
  bio: Team Lead, R&D Security Defense
  twitter: JeePLachance
  image: jplachance.jpg
---

Trying to find a good introduction for this blog post, I did what I do when I need to write a complex piece of code: a Google search! I searched for DevSecOps. One of the first results was [this article](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/devops/what-is-devsecops) on the RedHat website.

Basically, Coveo adopted the DevOps principle, meaning that all developers are now taking part in the design, development, deployment and operations of our cloud infrastructure. This allows us to iterate fast but, the security teams must also move fast now.

> To build secure environments while adopting DevOps, we must shift security left, in the hands of our developers. Shifting security left is something the software industry talks a lot about. This post will give you a few ideas. Spoiler: tooling is the key!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To build secure environments while adopting DevOps, we must shift security left, putting it as much as possible in the hands of our developers. Shifting security left is a hot topic in the software industry right now. This post will give you a few ideas. Spoiler: tooling is the key!
```

<!-- more -->

## The challenge of knowledge

> Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) opened a new world of possibilities. IaaS providers like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud are now all well known and don't need any presentation. Back in 2012, Coveo opened its first AWS account. In 2021, Coveo is managing over a dozen AWS accounts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) opened a new world of possibilities. IaaS providers like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud are now all well known and don't need any presentation. Back in 2012, Coveo opened its first AWS account. In 2021, Coveo is now managing over a dozen AWS accounts.
```

The multiplication of AWS accounts brought the necessity for Infrastructure as Code (IaC). There are multiple IaC tools out there, and Coveo decided to adopt Terraform. Terraform can manage almost every AWS resource. This means a developer can create IAM roles, EC2 instances, S3 buckets and hundreds of other resources using Terraform.

While this is all great, it does not remove the need to understand how those AWS services are working. To quote my paragliding instructor: "Knowledge is what keeps us safe!". Without the knowledge of what is safe and what isn't, a pilot is in danger.

It's exactly the same when configuring cloud services using Infrastructure as Code. To create a secured environment, it is necessary to:
- Understand the AWS services, their features, their limitations
- Know how to configure these services
- Know how to use Terraform to automate that configuration

> It does not stop at configuring an AWS resource for a specific cloud service. Developers now have to use Kubernetes too! In Kubernetes, a developer can create a Deployment being fronted by an Ingress that configures an AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB). So it is necessary to know how to write a secure Deployment manifest, and a secure Ingress manifest while understanding how Kubernetes will configure that ALB, because it must be well configured!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It does not stop at configuring an AWS resource for a specific cloud service. Developers now have to use Kubernetes too! In Kubernetes, a developer can create a Deployment fronted by an Ingress that configures an AWS Application Load Balancer (ALB). So it is necessary to know how to write a secure Deployment manifest, and a secure Ingress manifest in addition to understanding how Kubernetes will configure that ALB. All of that must be well configured!
```

## A traditional approach

> When does security kicks in? When does it become apparent that mistakes were made in that Terraform code? AWS has multiple services that can help identify misconfigurations like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When does security kick in? When does it become apparent that mistakes were made in that Terraform code? AWS has multiple services that can help identify misconfigurations, such as:
```

- [AWS Trusted Advisor](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/aws-overview-security-processes/aws-trusted-advisor-security-checks.html)
- [AWS Config conformance packs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/conformance-packs.html)
- [AWS IAM Access Analyzer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/what-is-access-analyzer.html)
- [AWS Security Hub](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/latest/userguide/securityhub-standards.html)

> If your organization doesn't have anything yet, AWS Security Hub is a good start as it greps findings from multiple AWS services into one interface and helps security specialists prioritize.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're starting with a fresh organization, AWS Security Hub is a good place to go as it pulls findings from multiple AWS services into one interface and helps security specialists prioritize.
```

What happens when a security specialist configures AWS Security Hub after delegating infrastructure management to multiple DevOps teams? Well, if everyone took the time to read all the documentation available each time they needed to create a new piece of infrastructure, everything should be green!

We all know we don’t always take the time to fully read the documentation. DevOps teams members are likely to:
- Copy a piece of Terraform code from StackOverflow

> - Copy another piece of Terraform code from our colleague that copied it from StackOverflow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Copy another piece of Terraform code from a colleague that copied it from StackOverflow
```

- Use an IDE to tell the required parameters without reading any documentation
- Use a pre-built Terraform module from someone else without looking at the code too much
- Etc...

> With time, an organization might end up facing dozens, hundreds, of AWS resources that don't follow best practices or that don't follow corporate policies. How can it be fixed?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With time, an organization might end up with dozens or hundreds of AWS resources that don't follow best practices or that don't follow corporate policies. How can that be fixed?
```

> AWS Config offers us the possibility to create [remediation actions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/remediation.html). While the idea is great, having a tool that changes AWS resources configuration can bring multiple problems:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AWS Config offers us the possibility to create [remediation actions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/config/latest/developerguide/remediation.html). While the idea is great, having a tool that changes AWS resource configurations can bring multiple problems:
```

- It can break the application

>     - Some resources cannot be changed, they need to be deleted then re-created

Reviewer 2: Is the extra indentation on purpose? Maybe you want to imply that this is an explanation of the previous point? If that's the case I'd put it between parentheses after the first point :)

Author: Fair!

>     - Some resources cannot be changed, they need to be deleted then re-created

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Some resources cannot be changed, they need to be deleted and then re-created
```

> - It can break the application
>     - Some resources cannot be changed, they need to be deleted then re-created

Author: ```suggestion
- It can break the application (some resources cannot be changed, they need to be deleted and then re-created)
```

- It creates a configuration drift since the Terraform code does not contain the fix

The Terraform code itself must be fixed. Fixing the Terraform code will fix resources. In which repository is the code managing that resource again?

## The DevSecOps approach

> Since organizations now ship changes to production environments multiple times per day, requesting a manual code review from a security expert for all changes does not scale. I could spend all my days reviewing Terraform code and Kubernetes manifest files changes, and I don't think I could cover them all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since organizations now ship changes to production environments multiple times per day, requesting a manual code review from a security expert for all changes would not scale. I could spend all my days reviewing Terraform code and Kubernetes manifest files changes, and I don't think I could cover them all.
```

> DevSecOps tells security specialists they need to automate security tests and run them as soon as possible in the development cycle. Organizations are already familiar with static code analysis tools for their applications source code, so why not do the same with Terraform code?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DevSecOps tells security specialists they need to automate security tests and run them as soon as possible in the development cycle. Organizations are already familiar with static code analysis tools for their application source code, so why not do the same with Terraform code?
```

This is where a tool like [Checkov](https://www.checkov.io/) kicks in. Installing Checkov is easy:
```shell
pip install checkov
```

Using it is even easier:
```shell
checkov -d /path/to/terraform/files
```

Checkov is one tool, but there are multiple tools out there:

> - [Terrascan](https://www.accurics.com/products/terrascan/) is another open-source tool, leverages Open Policy Agent policies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Terrascan](https://www.accurics.com/products/terrascan/) is another open-source tool, which leverages Open Policy Agent policies
```

> - [Snyk Infrastructure as Code](https://snyk.io/product/infrastructure-as-code-security/) is free for open-source projects and for a limited number of private projects

Reviewer 4: Il nous donne combien pour ca?

> - [Bridgecrew](https://bridgecrew.io/) are creators of Checkov, and they offer a SaaS that does analysis on IaC and much more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Bridgecrew](https://bridgecrew.io/) are creators of Checkov, and they offer a SaaS that performs analyses on IaC and much more
```

        Guide: https://docs.bridgecrew.io/docs/s3_13-enable-logging

Check: CKV_AWS_52: "Ensure S3 bucket has MFA delete enabled"
        FAILED for resource: aws_s3_bucket.data
        File: /bucket.tf:1-0

Check: CKV_AWS_21: "Ensure all data stored in the S3 bucket have versioning enabled"
        FAILED for resource: aws_s3_bucket.data
        File: /bucket.tf:1-0
        Guide: https://docs.bridgecrew.io/docs/s3_16-enable-versioning
```

There is a lot of information here:
- There are things Terraform is doing right!
- There are things Terraform is doing wrong...
    - Ensure all data stored in the S3 bucket is securely encrypted at rest -> Default encryption on S3 objects is not enabled
    - Ensure the S3 bucket has access logging enabled -> The [S3 server access logging feature](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ServerLogs.html) is not configured
    - Ensure S3 bucket has MFA delete enabled -> The [MFA delete S3 feature](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/MultiFactorAuthenticationDelete.html) is not enabled
    - Ensure all data stored in the S3 bucket have versioning enabled -> Versioning for our objects is not enabled

> These are all easy to fix problems, when the developer knows they are problems! This is the beauty of Checkov. It gives us links to documentation that explains to us what's missing. Knowledge is the key!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These problems are all easy to fix, when the developer knows they are problems! This is the beauty of Checkov. It gives us links to documentation that explains to us what's missing. Knowledge is the key!
```

Based on those recommendations, here is a valid S3 bucket Terraform code:
```hcl
data "aws_s3_bucket" "logging" {
  bucket = "logging-bucket"
}

resource "aws_s3_bucket" "data" {
  # checkov:skip=CKV_AWS_52: Terraform cannot enable MFA delete, it can only be enabled by the Root account

  bucket = "my-data-bucket"

  logging {
    target_bucket = data.aws_s3_bucket.logging.id
  }

  versioning {
    enabled = true
  }

  server_side_encryption_configuration {
    rule {
      apply_server_side_encryption_by_default {
        sse_algorithm = "AES256"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## How to run Checkov on every Terragrunt plan

> Now that the organization picked a tool, DevOps teams need to adopt it. Once again, automation is the key. Checkov can run in a Jenkins job, in a GitHub action, or Terragrunt could run it automatically on each `plan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that the organization picked a tool, DevOps teams need to adopt it. Once again, automation is the key. Checkov can run in a Jenkins job, in a GitHub action, or Terragrunt could run it automatically on each `plan`.
```

[Terragrunt](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/) is a nice wrapper that can be used on top of Terraform. It brings multiple features, and one of them is the [before_hook](https://terragrunt.gruntwork.io/docs/features/before-and-after-hooks/#before-and-after-hooks). It is possible to instruct Terragrunt to run a custom command before the actual Terraform `plan` command.

```hcl
terraform {
  before_hook "checkov" {
    commands = ["plan"]
    execute = [
      "checkov",
      "-d",
      ".",
      "--quiet",
      "--framework",
      "terraform",
    ]
  }
}
```

> With these few lines of HCL code, Terragrunt will run the `checkov` command every time a developer runs a `terragrunt plan` on a project. If Checkov identifies insecure code, it exits with the `1` exit code, which fails the `before_hook`, which stops the `terragrunt plan`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With these few lines of HCL code, Terragrunt will run the `checkov` command every time a developer runs a `terragrunt plan` on a project. If Checkov identifies insecure code, it exits with the `1` exit code, which fails the `before_hook`, which in turn stops the `terragrunt plan`.
```

> There are a few benefits from this approach:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are a few benefits to this approach:
```

- Developers most likely already use the `terragrunt plan` command before submitting a pull request

> - Since the CI/CD pipeline probably already does a `terragrunt plan`, it won't be required to change a single line of code in the CI/CD pipeline configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Since the CI/CD pipeline probably already does a `terragrunt plan`, there's no need to change a single line of code in the CI/CD pipeline configuration
```

Integrating security tools inside other DevOps tools is a great way to drive adoption.

## Next steps

> Running static analysis on Terraform files and on Kubernetes manifest won't solve all problems, but it will help the security team adapt to the speed of DevOps and shift a bit of security responsibilities right in the hands of developers. Developing knowledge about AWS, Kubernetes, all the other things your organization might be using is also essential.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running static analysis on Terraform files and on Kubernetes manifest won't solve all problems, but it will help the security team adapt to the speed of DevOps and shift a bit of security responsibilities left, i.e., in the hands of developers. Developing knowledge about AWS, Kubernetes, all the other things your organization might be using is also essential.
```

Reviewer 2: (assuming I got the expression right)

> The organization still needs observability in the resulting environment. AWS Config is there to help, so are other SaaS providers like Lacework!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The organization still needs observability in the resulting environment. AWS Config is there to help, and so are other SaaS providers like Lacework!
```
